README.md, before:


# Welcome

This repository collects information about R-Ladies Bergen chapter. We will post here presentations from meetings, useful code, tutorials, etc. Anything that can be useful for our community.

If you want to contribute or have questions, do not hesitate to contact us:

* Jonelle Villar [\@jonellevillar](https://github.com/jonellevillar)
* Julia Romanowska [\@jromanowska](https://github.com/jromanowska)

# R-Ladies Bergen on the net

* [Meetup web-page](https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/) - all the meetings will be announced here; register here!
* [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/@RLadiesBergen)
* email: bergen@rladies.org

# Meeting list

### 1. Kick-off meeting

__Date__ 25.11.2019, 5PM (CEST)

### 2. Intro to tidyverse

__Date__ 06.02.2020, 5PM (CEST)

### 3. Troubleshooting

__Date__ 15.06.2020, 4PM (CEST)

### 4. Building a webpage with blogdown

__Date__ 03.09.2020, 6:15PM (CEST)


### 5. Guest talk: Athanasia Mowinckel [\@drmowinckels](https://github.com/drmowinckels)

__Date__ 06.10.2020, 4:30PM (CEST)

__Webpage__ https://athanasiamo.github.io/LME_introduction_workshop/    
and __github repo__ https://github.com/Athanasiamo/LME_introduction_workshop

### 6. Guest talk: Maëlle Salmon [\@maelle](https://github.com/maelle)

__Date__ 11.2020, 3:30PM (CEST)

__Webpage__ https://new-r-dev.netlify.app/    
__github repo__ https://github.com/maelle/r-pkg-dev-rladies-bergen    
and ___recording___ available [on R-Ladies Global YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZX0iI_P__ic&t=2s)

### 5. Guest talk: Cosima Meyer [\@cosimameyer](https://github.com/cosimameyer)

__Date__ 8.12.2020, 4PM (CEST)

__Webpage__ https://nlp-bergen.netlify.app/    
__github repo__ https://github.com/cosimameyer/nlp-rladies-bergen    
and __recording__ available [on R-Ladies Global YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bvqur70ZmyM)

### 6. Sharing and outlook workshop: My experience with R and the next step!

### 7. gReat SKUP!

A journalist's was to learn coding [Shazia Majid](https://twitter.com/ShaziaSarwar)

__Date__ Friday, January 15, 2021, 6PM (CET)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/275580600/    
and __recording__ available [on R-Ladies Global YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ofEX4pNG028)

### 8. A statistician's story of learning and teaching with R and R Markdown

Guest talk by statistician and R-Lady [Mette Langaas](https://www.ntnu.edu/employees/mette.langaas) ([\@mettelang](https://github.com/mettelang)).

__Date__ Tuesday, February 23, 2021, 6PM (CET)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/275859899/

### 9. cReating visualizations and a book!

An interview with two visualization freelancers using R, [Shirley Wu](https://twitter.com/sxywu) and [Nadieh Bremer](https://twitter.com/NadiehBremer), who collaborated for a fantastic project that became a book! [datasketches](https://www.datasketch.es/)

__Date__ Monday, March 8, 2021, 6PM (CET)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/276414695/    
and __recording__ available [on R-Ladies Global YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1q2o9DOni5U)

### 10. Best coding practices

__Date__ Monday, March 22, 2021, 4PM (CET)    
__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/276102013/    
and __recording__ available [on R-Ladies Global YouTube channel](https://youtu.be/EvvverTVgY0)

### 11. Statistrikk!

__Date__ May 20, 2021, 6PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/277543752/

### 12. Bayesian statistics

__Date__ Monday, May 31, 2021, 12:00PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/278142805/

### 13. Large scale time series forecasting

__Date__ June 14, 2021, 2:00PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/278319207/

### 14. Reproducible analysis in anthropology

__Date__ September 7, 2021, 6:00PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/280175121/
and __recording__ available [on R-Ladies Global YouTube channel](https://youtu.be/IyjtW41Bfbo)

### 15. FAIR research data & citable code

Guest talk by Jenny Ostrup from University of Bergen Library.

__Date__ October 7, 2021, 12:30PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/280789276/
and __slides__ available [on Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/record/5553307#.YV7iY3uxVrk)

### 16. exploratory data analysis (EDA) workflow

Guest talk by Priyanka Gagneja.

__Date__ October 21, 2021, 3PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/281243389/ ,    
__slides__ available [on github](https://github.com/priyankagagneja/Talks/blob/main/EDA_workflow/EDA_workflow.pdf),    
and __recording__ available [on YouTube](https://youtu.be/UeIE4uZ6Jns)

### 17. Data visualization in R

Guest talk by [Ania Skrzydło](https://github.com/aniaskrzydlo) from Epsilon (PL).

__Date__ November 30, 2021, 5:00PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/281945467/ ,    
code available [on github](https://github.com/aniaskrzydlo/datavis),    
and __recording__ available [on R-Ladies Global YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pVkv1XGTcwo)

### 18. ~~E~~Horror messages

__Date__ May 12, 2022, 12:00PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/285436625/

[Presentation available](2022-05-12_error_msgs/horror_messages_JRom_2022-05-12.html)

### 19. Making and publishing your first R package

Guest talk by Sarah Popov, event organized by Jessica Louise Ray.

__Date__ August 17, 2022, 6:00PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/287835483/    
and (virtual) https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/287836013/


### 20. Winter meetup

Get together and discuss.

__Date__ November 29, 2022, 10:45 AM (CET)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/289743592/

[Presentation available](2022-11-29_reproducible_quarto_documents/JRom_reproducible.html)

## COMING UP!

### 21. Auto-magical tables in R

About making tables in R, using some of the many packages made for that.

__Date__ January 28, 2023, 09:00 AM (CET)

__Original Meetup pages:__

1. __virtual event:__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/290100296/
1. __physical meetup:__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/290100305/

[Materials and presentation available here](2023-01-27_automagical_tables/README.html)

Commit message:

updated presentation list; new presentation - first draft

README.md, after:


# Welcome

This repository collects information about R-Ladies Bergen chapter. We will post here presentations from meetings, useful code, tutorials, etc. Anything that can be useful for our community.

If you want to contribute or have questions, do not hesitate to contact us:

* Jonelle Villar [\@jonellevillar](https://github.com/jonellevillar)
* Julia Romanowska [\@jromanowska](https://github.com/jromanowska)

# R-Ladies Bergen on the net

* [Meetup web-page](https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/) - all the meetings will be announced here; register here!
* [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/@RLadiesBergen)
* email: bergen@rladies.org

# Meeting list

### 1. Kick-off meeting

__Date__ 25.11.2019, 5PM (CEST)

### 2. Intro to tidyverse

__Date__ 06.02.2020, 5PM (CEST)

### 3. Troubleshooting

__Date__ 15.06.2020, 4PM (CEST)

### 4. Building a webpage with blogdown

__Date__ 03.09.2020, 6:15PM (CEST)


### 5. Guest talk: Athanasia Mowinckel [\@drmowinckels](https://github.com/drmowinckels)

__Date__ 06.10.2020, 4:30PM (CEST)

__Webpage__ https://athanasiamo.github.io/LME_introduction_workshop/    
and __github repo__ https://github.com/Athanasiamo/LME_introduction_workshop

### 6. Guest talk: Maëlle Salmon [\@maelle](https://github.com/maelle)

__Date__ 11.2020, 3:30PM (CEST)

__Webpage__ https://new-r-dev.netlify.app/    
__github repo__ https://github.com/maelle/r-pkg-dev-rladies-bergen    
and ___recording___ available [on R-Ladies Global YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZX0iI_P__ic&t=2s)

### 5. Guest talk: Cosima Meyer [\@cosimameyer](https://github.com/cosimameyer)

__Date__ 8.12.2020, 4PM (CEST)

__Webpage__ https://nlp-bergen.netlify.app/    
__github repo__ https://github.com/cosimameyer/nlp-rladies-bergen    
and __recording__ available [on R-Ladies Global YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bvqur70ZmyM)

### 6. Sharing and outlook workshop: My experience with R and the next step!

### 7. gReat SKUP!

A journalist's was to learn coding [Shazia Majid](https://twitter.com/ShaziaSarwar)

__Date__ Friday, January 15, 2021, 6PM (CET)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/275580600/    
and __recording__ available [on R-Ladies Global YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ofEX4pNG028)

### 8. A statistician's story of learning and teaching with R and R Markdown

Guest talk by statistician and R-Lady [Mette Langaas](https://www.ntnu.edu/employees/mette.langaas) ([\@mettelang](https://github.com/mettelang)).

__Date__ Tuesday, February 23, 2021, 6PM (CET)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/275859899/

### 9. cReating visualizations and a book!

An interview with two visualization freelancers using R, [Shirley Wu](https://twitter.com/sxywu) and [Nadieh Bremer](https://twitter.com/NadiehBremer), who collaborated for a fantastic project that became a book! [datasketches](https://www.datasketch.es/)

__Date__ Monday, March 8, 2021, 6PM (CET)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/276414695/    
and __recording__ available [on R-Ladies Global YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1q2o9DOni5U)

### 10. Best coding practices

__Date__ Monday, March 22, 2021, 4PM (CET)    
__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/276102013/    
and __recording__ available [on R-Ladies Global YouTube channel](https://youtu.be/EvvverTVgY0)

### 11. Statistrikk!

__Date__ May 20, 2021, 6PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/277543752/

### 12. Bayesian statistics

__Date__ Monday, May 31, 2021, 12:00PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/278142805/

### 13. Large scale time series forecasting

__Date__ June 14, 2021, 2:00PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/278319207/

### 14. Reproducible analysis in anthropology

__Date__ September 7, 2021, 6:00PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/280175121/
and __recording__ available [on R-Ladies Global YouTube channel](https://youtu.be/IyjtW41Bfbo)

### 15. FAIR research data & citable code

Guest talk by Jenny Ostrup from University of Bergen Library.

__Date__ October 7, 2021, 12:30PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/280789276/
and __slides__ available [on Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/record/5553307#.YV7iY3uxVrk)

### 16. exploratory data analysis (EDA) workflow

Guest talk by Priyanka Gagneja.

__Date__ October 21, 2021, 3PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/281243389/ ,    
__slides__ available [on github](https://github.com/priyankagagneja/Talks/blob/main/EDA_workflow/EDA_workflow.pdf),    
and __recording__ available [on YouTube](https://youtu.be/UeIE4uZ6Jns)

### 17. Data visualization in R

Guest talk by [Ania Skrzydło](https://github.com/aniaskrzydlo) from Epsilon (PL).

__Date__ November 30, 2021, 5:00PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/281945467/ ,    
code available [on github](https://github.com/aniaskrzydlo/datavis),    
and __recording__ available [on R-Ladies Global YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pVkv1XGTcwo)

### 18. ~~E~~Horror messages

__Date__ May 12, 2022, 12:00PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/285436625/

[Presentation available](2022-05-12_error_msgs/horror_messages_JRom_2022-05-12.html)

### 19. Making and publishing your first R package

Guest talk by Sarah Popov, event organized by Jessica Louise Ray.

__Date__ August 17, 2022, 6:00PM (CEST)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/287835483/    
and (virtual) https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/287836013/


### 20. Winter meetup

Get together and discuss.

__Date__ November 29, 2022, 10:45 AM (CET)

__Original Meetup page__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/289743592/

[Presentation available](2022-11-29_reproducible_quarto_documents/JRom_reproducible.html)

### 21. Auto-magical tables in R

About making tables in R, using some of the many packages made for that.

__Date__ January 28, 2023, 09:00 AM (CET)

__Original Meetup pages:__

1. __virtual event:__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/290100296/
1. __physical meetup:__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/290100305/

[Materials and presentation available here](2023-01-27_automagical_tables/README.html)

## COMING UP!

### 22. Efficient dependency management with {renv}

First meeting in a series about [{renv}](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html) package.
Short presentation by Julia Romanowska and then we can chat.

__Date__ March 15, 2023, 09:00 AM (CET)

__Original Meetup page:__ https://www.meetup.com/rladies-bergen/events/291632166/

[Presentation available here](2023-03-15_renv_intro/JRomanowska_intro_renv.html)
